---
link: http://bweducation.businessworld.in/article/New-Age-Classrooms-are-the-Future-of-Education-/10-04-2018-146020
title: New Age Classrooms are the Future of Education
description: BW Education - , K12, Students-In an exclusive conversation with BW Education, Atul Temurnikar- Co-founder of the Singapore based Global Indian International School discusses how Virtual reality is changing the education culture of India.
keywords: , Virtual Reality, smart class
author: Bw Online Bureau
date: 2018-04-10T18:00:00.000Z
publisher: BW Education
stats: paragraph=14 sentences=32, words=544
---
A few excerpts from his interview are placed below:

Q. According to you, how has technology evolved the classrooms of today?

Digitization has transformed the traditional classroom style teaching. Modern day classrooms provide high-tech learning environment. International schools promote 21st Century learning techniques with use of smart boards, power points and visual mediums to enhance learning experience. Graphical and visual representation of complex topics and concepts make learning easy.

Q. How has 21st Century classroom changed following the advent of technology?

Most of the international schools including Global India International School encourage the open classroom model to promote interactive learning.

Modern classrooms are WIFI enabled with high bandwidth. Some of higher secondary classrooms have an interactive LED display screens with state-of- the –art acoustics. Students are encouraged to use I PADs and Desktops in classroom to promote interactive learning. Each classroom also has a dedicated security camera to ensure security of students and school staff.

Q. What are some of the technology trends that you see coming in 2018 that will benefit the students of today?

In 2018, educational institutions would try to use both digitization and traditional teaching methods to enhance learning and teaching experience for students and teachers. Augmented reality in combination with traditional teaching techniques would drive practical project base learning at schools. Technology combined with extracurricular activities would ensure holistic personality development of children. Virtual classrooms are today a reality thanks to technology. Through virtual classroom international faculty can take special classes which could benefit Indian students . Schools can also encourage students to bring their own device to schools which can be used for research to enhance learning experience and project work.

Q. What are the kind of products that were used earlier as compared to the products/services that are being incorporated in the curriculum right now?

Earlier, most learning and retention was measured based on inputs from Q&A that were asked as a part of tests and worksheets. Now our students have access to the daily lesson plans through the LMS (Learning Management Software). They can take online tests after every lesson is taught and this gives the teachers a quick sense of how much the students have comprehended and can accordingly modify the lesson plan.

We use technology to create a virtual classroom where our students in other locations can benefit from lessons held elsewhere. We also record important lectures and broadcast this to other campuses as required.

(The Views expressed in the interview are personal and does not reflect the publisher's point of view)

* About the Guest- Atul Temurnikar is co-founder of the Singapore based Global Indian International School (GIIS) and the non-profit Global Indian Foundation (GIF) which he established in Sept 2002. Atul is also Trustee and Chairman for its worldwide operations. Global Indian International School in Asia leading school network with 21 schools across 8 countries namely Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Thailand, New Zealand, Vietnam, UAE & India.

* About the Global Indian International School (GIIS) - It was established under the guiding principles of Global Schools Foundation - is an international network of award-winning schools with 20 campuses across 7 countries, including Singapore, Malaysia, India and Japan. Known for its learner-centric and skill-based curricula, GIIS offers holistic learning and personality development opportunities for students.
